>> Welcome.
What a great day for accessibility.
What a great week for accessibility
in general, not just at Apple.
Welcome to Session 121, iPhone Accessibility.
My name is Eric Seymour.
I manage the VoiceOver Engineering Team at Apple and
I cannot tell you, we cannot tell you how happy we are
to be here today to talk to you about this topic.
We get so many requests for adding accessibility
features to iPhone and for adding VoiceOver to iPhone.
And so it's just a thrill to finally be here on stage to
actually be able to show it to you today and show you how
to make your applications work really well with it.
So we're going to get straight to it.
It's going to come in two parts.
First, I'm going to give you a quick overview of
iPhone accessibility features for the iPhone 3GS
and then I'm going to give you a demonstration
And then my colleague Chris Fleizach is going to come on
stage and tell you how to make your applications work well
with some of these features, with all of these features.
OK, so let's get to it.
So, perhaps you recall seeing this screenshot
during Phil's introduction of iPhone 3GS on Monday.
And this is the new accessibility
settings panel on the device.
And it showed up in the keynote for a very short period
of time but this was marked an incredibly important day
for blind users around the world and this is what we
suspected before this slide made it into the keynote.
That the impact that this has had, that
the message of releasing this product
on the blindness community is unbelievable.
It's been off the charts this week.
Really, really incredible.
So, I'm going to walk through the features.
First, VoiceOver.
So, VoiceOver is screen access technology that allows
somebody who's blind or visually impaired to use the device.
So effectively, it speaks things that are on the screen.
It speaks as a result of user activity.
It plays sound effects to help embellish that experience.
So it's effectively, it's a spoken interface with some
extra sound effects to make it a really rich experience.
And so to put VoiceOver into iPhone, there
were a couple of important things that we did.
VoiceOver, perhaps some of you
know is a technology that we have
in several products now, most notably
on our desktop platform.
So it's a very feature-rich mature screen reading
application for users who are visually impaired.
And to move that into iPhone, we
had to make it iPhone simple.
We had to take something that is relatively mature that's
based a lot on keyboard activity because of its roots
but make it available on a device that has no
keyboard for users that have an expectation
that it's really approachable, really usable,
really fun and we think we've done that.
The other thing we needed to do is create an
experience where it's safe to touch the device.
So when you can see the screen, you explore
with your eyes, you control with touch.
But when you can't see the screen, you need to be able
to explore with touch safely without pressing buttons
or doing things that you didn't intend to do.
And then when you're ready to do that, do a few gestures
to actually make the phone do interesting things.
And so we've done both of those things.
So I'm going to demo that in a few minutes.
We've added Zoom.
Now this is full screen zoom.
This doesn't replace the zoom that exists on the phone.
All the zoom features that you know and
love, pinching in Safari, and in mail,
and in maps, all of that stuff just works.
This is a full screen zoom.
It zooms the entire screen up to 500 percent.
So because of this, it uses a different gesture set
which I'm going to demonstrate quickly in a few minutes.
We've added White on Black which for some
visually impaired users makes it more comfortable
and easier to see the screen.
Mono Audio, so for somebody with a hearing impairment on
one side, this sends both channels of audio to both ears.
And then what we think of this neat
little feature, Speak Auto-text.
So, you know these bubbles that appear when you are typing
along to suggest a correction or misspelling or to notify
of a misspelling, this will actually speak what
pops up automatically with text-to-speech synthesis.
And so really good if you're using zoom and
that bubble pops up and it's panned off screen
but we actually think it's going to be useful for all
users just because sometimes even as a sighted user,
I myself just stare at the keyboard
and I might miss what's popping up.
So it's a nice convenience feature too.
And then there's how we turn on these
features and this is really important.
You can turn it on of course from the
phone and the reason that's important is
because we want you to try all these features with your app.
And so you just drill down to the panel, turn the things
on that you want and start moving around and using them
with your application to see how well it works.
If you need these features as a user before you can
even get into the phone, it's also really important
that you can turn it on from iTunes
which of course you can do.
So when you see your main panel in iTunes for iPhone
3GS, you'll see a button here, Configure Universal Access
and that will open a little panel and then you
can choose the features that you want to turn on,
click OK and suddenly they're enabled in your phone.
Your phone will start talking or you'll
have zoom features or any of the others.
So, I am going to give you a demo of the phone.
Alright, so here's a phone and I'm going to turn it on.
Let's go in.
We'll go to Settings and we'll go to General.
And here is our new button.
See the Accessibility button here, I'm going to press it.
And here are the new features in our panel.
I'm going to spend a few moments on Zoom and
then I'm going to spend time on VoiceOver.
So let's go into Zoom first.
We'll just turn it on.
So, Zoom, full screen zoom, uses a three-finger gesture.
Basically I take three fingers.
Double tap to zoom in, double tap to zoom out.
And when I'm in, I can move around.
I can trough as one would expect.
I can increase zoom by double tap
and push up and push down like so.
Let's go somewhere else.
So, I go to Notes and if I'm doing
a control which requires panning,
it automatically will pan with
me as I move around the screen.
So that's it.
It's really simple.
And so that's Zoom.
And now I will go to Accessibility and
turn Zoom off and we'll go to VoiceOver.
Alright, so here's VoiceOver.
>> VoiceOver on, Settings, Accessibility, Plug-in.
>> So already VoiceOver is speaking to me and it's speaking
descriptions of the screen and I'm just going to go Home.
>> Messages.
>> Now remember how I talked about having the ability to
touch anything on the screen and be in a safe environment,
so that I'm not actually doing anything yet.
I'm just exploring.
So here are the ways that you explore with VoiceOver.
I can just touch the screen.
>> Photos, Calculator, Notes, Voice Memos.
>> I can drag around the screen.
>> Web, Calculator, Clock, Notes, iTunes.
>> And you'll notice you hear this ticking sounds
and that tells me when I'm crossing a boundary.
So right away if I can't see the screen.
>> Screen curve none.
>> Which by the way we can simulate for you.
>> Ca-- Photos, Camera, Weather.
>> You can see how important that becomes.
I'm going to turn it back on for demo purposes.
Now you also might notice this black and white box
that's around, around the Weather icon right now
and that's the VoiceOver cursor and
that's the last thing that's spoken.
It's the thing that's selected and as I move my finger--
>> Clock, Notes, Voice Memos.
>> -- that follows me around the screen.
And I can also move it around simply by flicking.
>> Notes, Clock, Calculator, Settings, iTunes.
>> And this assures that I can get
to every element on the screen.
So if the screen is really dense with elements
and I can't quite get my finger on the one I want,
I can get near it and then I can flick left or right.
>> Settings, iTunes.
>> For example if I touch up the Title Bar.
>> 9:07 a.m., status power 85 percent battery power.
Status 9:07 a.m. 100 percent WiFi signal.
9:08 a.m. Clock.
>> So I can get the things and then I can
move around within them very, very easily.
OK, so the next thing I might want to do of course is
interact with something and the way I would do that,
the most common way is to just do a simple double
tap and what's nice about this is I don't have
to double tap on the phone icon here for example.
I can double tap anywhere on the screen and
it will go to where the VoiceOver cursor is.
>> Phone, phone number 529.
Delete number.
Delete. Delete.
>> OK, and I can just press buttons.
>> 5, 5, 6, 6, 7, 7.
>> Like so.
So it's very simple to interact with the device.
Let's go home.
Trust that I could make a phone call if I wanted to.
Let's look at a few other things.
So, we've made every application that Apple
produces and ships on iPhone 3GS accessible.
And I obviously can't show them all here.
So I'm just going to show a couple.
I'm going to go to Stocks.
>> Stocks.
Stocks, Dow Jones industrial average 8,793.74 up 54.72.
Change of 0.63 percent.
>> So, automatically and this happens on a lot of screens,
it will read summary information for
me right when I go into the screen.
It gives me what I want to know usually very quickly.
And then I can move around here same way.
>> Dow, NASDAQ, S&P, Apple Incorporated 140.92
have 0-- Google Inc-- Yahoo Incorporated.
>> Now the other important thing that I want to point out
is that we've really tried to uncover and do a complete job,
uncover all the nooks and crannies of the user
interface and go to great detail to make it accessible.
So for example, even the graph works.
>> May 4th, March 30th, February 24th, January 20th, 3--st yl8
>> And this is important because we know that there are so
many graphical aspects to iPhone applications especially
in your applications and we've provided API which
we think will help you do this with minimal effort.
So Chris is going to be talking
about that in a little while.
Let's go out of here and, so another very important
application to users, especially visually impaired users,
well all users, but important that
we get it right, is web browsing.
>> Safari, Apple Link.
>> And I'm happy to say that what iPhone gave us with Touch
provides probably the most realistic web browsing experience
of any screen reader to date and that's because
I can simply touch anywhere on the screen.
>> [Inaudible] of Apple and Universal Access logos.
For more than 20 years, Apple  has provided--
>> I can basically touch anywhere on the
screen and now I instantly know the layout.
Now this is important because on any other
screen reading application for example,
on a desktop I just have a keyboard
and so I'm moving between elements.
Now I can actually touch the screen.
I know it's there, I know what
the graphic designers had in mind.
So it's really, really-- it's really fan-- it's
actually profound for users of this technology.
And of course I can find anything.
>> The new iPhone 3GS includes a screen reader.
The new iPhone 3GS includes a screen reader, full screen
magnification and other new accessibility features.
Learn more, Link.
Mac OS X Snow Leopard disk.
[ Simultaneous Talking ]
>> So I'm showing you read all.
>> Mac OS X Snow Leopard.
>> And I can pause speaking by
just doing a tap with two fingers.
So expert screen reader users expects in their web browsing
experience the ability to jump around to find elements very,
very quickly and we really wanted to bring this
to iPhone but the challenge was how do we do that
and keep the gesture set simple so that there's
not a lot to learn and it's really intuitive
and we think we've come up with a good way to do that.
So for example, I might want to jump between all the
headers in the document or all the links or all the images
so that I don't have to wade through the other stuff.
And what we've come up with is a concept called
the rotor and the rotor is like turning a dial
on the iPod, or excuse me, on the iPhone.
>> Links, Form Element, Visited Links, Non-Visited Links.
>> Just think of it like turning a dial.
>> Visited Links, Non-Visit-- Images,
Characters, Words, Headers.
>> And there's headers.
>> iPod shuffle, Heading Level 4, Link, [inaudible].
Heading Level 4, Link, Products, Heading Level 3.
>> So really, really, really powerful
web browsing capabilities.
Alright, so, of course iPhone is also a great iPod.
>> iPod.
>> Let's go with iPod.
Let's pick a track.
>> Big Whisky and the Groogrux King.
iTunes Pass, Big Whisky and-- Lying in the Hands of God.
[Background music] Dave Matthews'
Band, Lying in the Hands of God.
[ Inaudible Remark ]
>> Big Whisky and the Groogrux King, iTunes Pass, iPod.
>> So of course iPod is fully accessible,
everything is fully accessible,
but there are a couple of nice
things I want to point out here.
First is you may have noticed I paused music without
pressing an actual tangible button on the screen
and we determined that sometimes you want to do something on
the phone where you don't really want to fumble like pausing
and playing music, like answering and hanging up a phone
call or ending a phone call, like pausing and playing video
and so we've invented this two finger
double tap kind of does the right thing
and so for example since I was just playing music.
[Music] I can pause and play that music
really, really easily from anywhere.
The other thing you might notice, actually I'm going to ask
you to notice in a second is that we do really great ducking
and this improves the experience when your listening
to text to speech so much when you're using your iPod.
[ Music ]
[ Voice Over ]
>> So you hear the video ducking, I mean the audio ducking.
OK, so that's iPod.
Now you might be asking the question
how does this work with my application
that we're producing, does this only work with Apple stuff.
And so like our other accessibility technologies on other
platforms we have full accessibility API that we've designed
and we have gone to great lengths to burn it into
all of the UIKit controls so that it's there for you
and in a lot of cases just works automatically.
And so to illustrate that I'm just going to go
into an application that's from the App Store.
I'm going to go into Urban Spoon.
>> Urban Spoon.
Urban Spoon, Location, Button.
>> Now Urban Spoon, like all of you, had no idea
about any of these features until this week,
so this is stock right down from the App Store, no changes,
no accessibility in mind and here's how well it works.
>> ...Indonesian, Indian-- Indian, dollar sign, dollar
sign, dollar sign, dollar sign, picker item adjustable.
>> Wow, so pretty accessible but
it also shows a couple of things.
For example, we were able to pick out
those dollar signs and speak them.
This is Urban Spoon's opportunity for example to say
well we really want to say high roller or low roller
or some other thing that reflects how they want
to articulate what that dollar sign value means,
and so we provide tools to do that and Chris is
going to talk about those in a couple of minutes
and so let's do a Shake for the fun of it.
[ Noise ]
[ Voice Over ]
>> I mean really actually even-- even I was astounded
by how accessible it is just right off the shelf
and so we're hoping that-- we think that
you're going to experience the same thing
and then for the few things you can embellish, it
will make a really fantastic experience for our users.
Alright, so I just want to end on one
thing and I'm going to go into Settings.
So some of you might be wondering [background voice
over] how does this work for international customers.
So I'm going to show you.
We're going to go International.
Francais. Deutsch.
Italiano. English
>> So we ship over 20 voices with iPhone 3GS.
VoiceOver is localized for all of them, totally works.
[Applause] So with that, I'd like to invite
my colleague Chris on stage to tell you how
to make it all work in your applications.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Eric.
That is a great demo.
So as you've seen we've done a lot of work to
make all the Apple apps accessible out of the box.
Now I'm going to talk about how to make
your app accessible and we've spent a lot
of effort to make this as easy as possible.
We don't want to make it an onerous or burdensome task
and I think you'll find that we've done just that.
So the UIAccessibility API is new for iPhone 3.0 and it
allows your app to provide information about the elements
on the screen to an assistive application like VoiceOver.
So before I dive in to the protocol,
and we start looking at the details,
let me just give you a quick overview
of how accessibility works on the phone.
We have VoiceOver which runs in the background and your app.
Now your app might have a button like Start and
VoiceOver would like to get some information about that.
So using the UIAccessibility protocol, VoiceOver
will ask your app for the button at this position.
Your app then says this button is at this
position, it turns that information to VoiceOver
and then VoiceOver is able to get the text and say start.
So the first thing to know about iPhone Accessibility
API is that it's simple and if you use UIKit for most
of your controls, a large amount of
the work is already done for you.
In fact most apps you only really need to provide a
few labels for some elements that appear as images
or maybe need a little bit more
descriptive information about them.
So let's look at the API.
The Attributes API has six things and that's it.
Most of them you won't even need to use,
so I won't go through all of them here.
We'll go through the common ones and then we'll look at
some of the ones that you won't need to use as often.
So the most common attributes you'll need to implement are--
is accessibilityElement which is a Boolean that determines
if this object is accessible and
that means it's visible to VoiceOver.
So importantly, this means that this
object and traditionally it's a UIView
that it does not have anymore information below it in any
subviews and its superview does not return any information.
So this UIView is sort of the end of the line.
This is the thing that's going
to give you all the information;
accessibilityLabel is the textual representation for
this element and Start button that we saw before,
accessibilityLabel would be the start
and that's an NSString, so pretty simple.
With just those two things you're going to
get 85 percent of the way there for your app.
Another common attribute that you may or may not need to
change are accessibilityTraits and traits are a new concept
for the iPhone 3.0 SDK, a little bit
different from the desktop accessibility.
>> And these are a set of traits that you OR together
and they help define the status,
the type and state for the element.
Now, UIKit controls has already returned the appropriate
traits and other information for a variety of states.
So that means if you need to return more trait
information, you should OR that with super
so you get everything UIKit already throws in there.
So let's look a little bit about
the traits and see an example.
So I have all the traits listed here.
We have things like button, link, whether it is a keyboard
key, whether it is an image, these are all well documented.
There are some documents available
already for UIAccessibility protocols,
so I'm not going to go through all of
these, but let's take a little look
about where traits would fit in on a screen like this.
So obviously we have a button up
in the top where we have a button.
The picture would be labeled as an image
as that's what it is and on the bottom,
we have something where the trait would say it
is not enabled because that icon is dimmed out
and if you press it, nothing will happen in that case.
So, we'll look a little bit more traits in the demo and
see how we can use them to make our app more accessible.
So the other accessibility attributes
are there, you may need to use them,
but most likely if your app is a standard UIKit
based app, you won't need to look at these.
The accessibilityFrame is the onscreen
rectangle for the UIElement.
If you're using UIViews, that's done automatically for you,
so you never need to change accessibilityFrame
for anything that's a UIView.
The accessibilityHint is a way for you
to give a little bit more information
about what happens when an element is pressed.
So we'll go into that but you can think
of this as just informing the user
if the case is not really clear
what will happen when you press it.
accessibilityValue is a way to
return some textual information
that is different from the label and more dynamic.
So the easiest way to think about this is a slider, so you
might have something where the slider is a volume slider.
In that case, the accessibilityLabel would be volume,
but the accessibility value would be 75 percent
so that allows us to distinguish between the two.
So, how do we add accessibility?
It's really, really easy.
We are going to go through the easiest ways first.
So, simple information can be added through Interface
Builder and in 3.0 SDK, you'll see there is this new pane
in the Interface Builder that allows you
to change some accessibility information.
So the other picture on this screen is
from the demo that we're going to use.
It's just a UIView, a window with
a bunch of different UIViews.
The blue UIView is selected in this case and we see
that some of the information is already filled in.
One that it's enabled.
Two that it is not an accessibilityElement.
So, what are the fields in this pane?
We can determine if accessibility
is on or off for an element.
That is the accessibility flag and that tells us if
this UIView will return information to VoiceOver.
There is the accessibility label which we can change,
the accessibility hint we can change and traits,
which you can select and you don't
need to crazy with the traits just
because there are check boxes that you can check.
You only want to pick the ones that
are most appropriate for this element.
So once you've added accessibility information
to your app, you're going to want to test it
and Eric showed how you can test it with VoiceOver,
but when you're in the mode, you're in the zone,
and you don't want to sync your app over
to your phone and turn on the VoiceOver,
we've added an Accessibility Inspector to the simulator.
So in the simulator and this is not
just for iPhone 3GS, this is in the SDK,
in Settings and then in General,
there is now an Accessibility tab.
When you go there, there is an Accessibility Inspector that
you can turn on and you get this little floating window.
You can move this around so that you can click on things
and this Accessibility Inspector works a lot like VoiceOver.
So, you click once to select something.
That gives you information about it,
then you double-click to activate it.
You can also minimize this window by clicking that
little Close button and then you can use the simulator
like you normally do and just click to activate things once.
Alright, so now I'm going to show you a demo and we're
going to start to look at how to make your app accessible.
Alright, so here is the app that
we're going to make accessible.
Let me just run through this and
we can get a feel for what it does.
So I have a formula and as I change values, it
just sort of redraws a graph in different values.
I can type something in here and
that will also change the graph.
I can click here and then that sort of gives
me values for different portions of the graph.
I have a Table button which brings in this view
and shows me lots of buttons and I have this thing
which will start animating the graph automatically.
Now the first thing you're thinking is how
can I get this app, I need this right now?
Well, it should be available to you as a developer sample.
If not yet, hopefully very soon and then once you get
that app you're going to wonder how accessible is this.
So let's go and turn on the Accessibility
Inspector and we'll go to the-- Here, now it's on.
So I can click things and it tells me information
about them such as the label in the frame.
Here this tells me the label is general, the
trait is a button, and it also tells me the frame.
So let's go home.
So now, notice that the app is on the other screen.
If I just try to switch over, it's not going to work,
so I'm going to minimize this and then switch over.
I'll open up my app and now we can start examining things.
So, I can click up here.
Here is a label.
It tells me that information automatically at static text.
Here's a text field with the value,
but notice it does not have any label,
so if I went to this, it would just say 0.15.
Slider, same type of thing, I only have a value, no label.
Down here at this button, it just says
button, it doesn't tell me what it does.
Same with this thing over here, it's another
button, and here this doesn't tell me what it does.
It just says visit our webpage but we don't
know if it is a button or a link or whatever.
The graph is also a black box to
us because it's rather dynamic.
This is not a standard UIKit control and we're going to
look at how to make that accessible in a few minutes.
OK, so let's go to Xcode and alright, I'll just
open up the Xcode project again and we'll open
up our Interface Builder first and we'll see what we can do.
So, the first thing we get to is this
text field and let's add a label to this.
We can call this Alpha, so we know that's Alpha.
Now here's something I want to do.
I have this little label that says Alpha equals right
next to the text box, but the text field also says Alpha
and I don't want to make my app overly complicated with
lots of little labels all over the place, so in this case,
I can just turn off accessibility for this
UI label so that it doesn't have to show up
and so the user can get all the
information right in the text field.
The slider also doesn't have a label,
so I can add that, something like Alpha.
How about these buttons, no labels again, so for these
ones we can do something like show table and this one also,
there's no label so we'll say start animating.
Finally, we have this UIView.
Notice that it's not enabled with accessibility,
so before we go into any big detail about how
to make this graph accessible and all that
stuff, let's just see if we can make it show up.
So, we'll say it's enabled and we'll say
it's graph for now and we'll save that.
We'll run it and we'll see what happens.
Alright, so I click there and all
of a sudden the label says Alpha.
Alright, so things are working.
I can no longer click on my Alpha here
because we've made that not accessible.
My slider says Alpha.
My graph now just says graph, so
that's good, it now appears.
I have a Show Table button and a Start Animating button.
Alright, so with just a few simple things in Interface
Builder, we've made this app a lot more accessible.
All of a sudden, a VoiceOver user will know what
these buttons do and what's going on in the screen.
So, there's a few more things we can do in
Interface Builder with some of the traits.
>> So, let's go back and go back to Interface Builder
and see what traits we can use to change this.
So here's an easy one.
Visit our webpage.
Now this would open up a webpage in
Safari that the user would browse to.
So in that case we should say this thing is a
link because it opens up and opens up in Safari.
Alright. So, another thing we noticed, you may have
noticed, is that when I press this button, it plays a sound
and there's also a trait that says play sound.
This is not a normal kind of trait that you think would
be important but when a VoiceOver user presses a button
and activates it, VoiceOver automatically plays a sound and
that's so the VoiceOver user knows what they've just done.
So if you play a sound and VoiceOver plays
a sound all kind of shenanigans break loose.
So you don't want to both play a sound at the same
time and you can do that by saying this plays a sound.
VoiceOver, you don't need to play a sound.
Finally, we have this graph here.
All we've done is just mail this one in and we'll
say it's a graph but we can also say it's an image
so that the VoiceOver user doesn't get confused-- Is
this a control, what am I supposed to do with this graph?
We can just save some image for now.
So save that, run it again and
see if our changes took place.
So here we have a link and it says play sound.
It looks like I chose the wrong one but you get the idea.
That link may also play a sound.
I didn't click on it for all you know.
Here the graph, it's-- it now has a trait as an image.
So that's good.
So with just a few clicks in the
check boxes we didn't go crazy.
We've added a lot of accessibility to our app.
Alright. So that will get you at least 85 percent
of the way there for accessibility for your app.
It was that easy.
So we also have ways to add accessibilities
to UIViews that are created programmatically
or anything that you need to do in the code.
And that can be done either through
setting accessibility attributes
or by overriding the accessibility methods in an instance.
So let's look at how that works.
So, all of the accessibility attribute
methods have setters with them.
And if you have an object that doesn't change
its label overtime, it's just there on the screen
and it has something static like in this example
we have a UIControl that would be a Play button.
You can set it right when you instantiate the object.
So here what we've done is we say
setIsAccessibilityElement:YES.
That means VoiceOver can see this and we say
setAccessibilityLabel to play and we're done.
Ship it. But there are some other cases
that are a little bit more tricky.
You might have a UIView that's label changes overtime.
So you might think as something like a MyTemperatureView
and in this UIView it would get some data
from somewhere and display temperature.
So to make this accessible, we'll
first override isAccessibilityElement.
Return yes for that.
We'll override accessibilityLabel
to use some data model that we have.
In this case I have something called cityWeather and
that can return me the current temperature string.
So that can be returned to the accessibilityLabel
and be updated whenever the data model changes.
I also have some accessibilityTraits here and I've added a
new one and that's the UIAccessibilityTraitSummaryElement.
So this trait allows you to choose one element in your
app that when your app starts, VoiceOver will find
and use the information from it to give an overview of that.
So if this is some sort of weather app,
VoiceOver would start the app and it would say,
"Application name, 75 degrees Fahrenheit."
So without doing anything, the
VoiceOver user will get an overview
of the most important information your app has to offer.
Now you don't need to add this to your app.
Not every app has a summary element that you want to
define but you may have something that requires that.
I noticed I also OR'd with super.
So I can get what other traits come through UIKit for free.
So with those accessibility attribute methods,
we're able to adorn our UIViews and Elements
with almost all the information VoiceOver needs to operate.
There are also a few cases though that VoiceOver needs
to know when something has changed on the screen.
And we can use notifications to tell
VoiceOver when something has happened.
We have two notifications, one is
screen changed, one is layout changed.
The screen change is when a whole new screen comes in,
maybe it slides in from the bottom,
all the elements are different.
In this example if I press the Bookmarks button
I'll get a screen that looks like this and I want
to post a notification that says,
UIAccessibilityPostNotification
(UIAccessibilityNotificationScreenChanged).
Now that's a lot to type but don't worry
if you use autocomplete it's not that bad.
So layout change is a little bit different and that
will be something more like if I press the Edit button.
Now when I press the Edit button, I get a few new
elements in the screen but generally it's the same screen.
So to inform VoiceOver of this change, I can
post a layout change notification instead.
Alright, so let's look at how we can do this in the code.
So I'm going to go back to Xcode
and we'll see what we can do.
So, there's a few things we're going to
do to make this even better experience.
I'm going to tell what they are because you don't know yet.
And some of the things we missed out on were hints.
We didn't add any hints.
We didn't have-- we've had some few elements
that sort of change their behavior overtime.
So the first thing I want to do
is change the Stopwatch button.
And the Stopwatch button, what it did when
you pressed it on it started animating
but when you pressed it again it stopped animating.
So in that case the label sort of
changes when it goes from start to stop.
So I can also update my label when that happens
and I'm going to find out the right place.
And Stopwatch button was pressed.
And here we're going to change the label
to be something a little bit more accurate.
So I'll say Stopwatch set accessibilityLabel and
here is a state where it is changed from on to off
and if it's now off, pressing it again will start animating.
Likewise if I go from off to on
pressing it again will stop animating.
So now I can change my label a little bit more
dynamically based on updating conditions in the app.
Now the Stopwatch is a little bit of a strange creature.
I'm really not sure what it does.
It can start animating, stop animating but we can also add
a hint for this and I might want to that in viewDidLoad
and then I can say Stopwatch set
accessibilityHint and I'll just toggles animation.
So the user gets a little bit more
context of what was going on.
So our GraphView right now, all we did was make an
accessibilityElement and we said that this was a graph.
That's all we had.
We can add a little bit more information to that.
We can tell it it's a graph when the
Alpha value equals whatever it equals.
So that won't be too hard.
We're going to override accessibilityLabel
in the graphing view to do that.
So I'm going to copy some code and pastes that.
So now my accessibilityLabel will return
a string with format that says graph
with Alpha of and then it paste in the right Alpha.
So that will give a little bit
more context to a VoiceOver user.
The last thing I want to show is posting a notification.
So we do have a case where a new screen comes in.
When I press this Table button, we get a whole new
screen that slides in and then also one that goes away.
So we can-- here we want to post a notification
and I'll do that and Table button was pressed.
And right at the end,
I can say UIAccessibilityPostNotification UI accessibility
screen change notification and we don't need an argument.
So it's much easier when I have autocomplete.
Alright, so let's run it and see what
Accessibility Inspector tells us happened.
So if I click on the graph, all of a
sudden it says graph with Alpha of 0.15.
If I change the slider and look at it again,
it says graph of Alpha with a new value.
So we've added a little bit more dynamicism
to our app with just a little bit of code.
Let's check out this button over here.
The label says start animating and it gives
me a hint which says toggles animation.
If I press it, now the label says stop animating.
So the VoiceOver user would know that if
I press this now it will stop animating.
>> So that's pretty good.
If I show this table, nothing happens now because
only VoiceOver listens to those notifications
but rest assured the right thing will happen.
Alright, so there it was, setting accessibility attributes.
That's all you need to know to adorn your
UIViews with the right accessibility information
to give users the best experience they can.
So that will probably cover 95 percent of all the cases
for accessibility that you'll need to do in your app
and we hope this will be a really easy experience
and something that won't be onerous or burden.
It may even be fun when you can play
around and try it out with VoiceOver.
Now, we haven't talked about some other cases
that you might have been wondering about,
that is namely, how do we make the graph accessible?
This looks like one UIView that draws a bar
line and is a little bit more complicated
than some of the UIViews we've seen so far.
So we have a protocol called the Accessibility Container
protocol that allows a UIView with separate subelements
to return information about those subelements.
So in this case we have one subelement that told
us something about January 1st and right next
to it we have another subelement that
told us something about another date.
So to implement the Accessibility Container protocol,
a UIView no longer is an accessibilityElement
because its self doesn't return accessibility
information but it instead implements this three methods,
accessibilityElementCount, returns the
number of elements this UIView has.
accessibilityElementAtIndex which is just the element
from zero to the count and indexOfAccessibilityElement
which gives you the location in the list of this element.
So sort of like an array function that you can
call and get the right element that you want.
So to make this as easy as possible, you can wrap
up all this accessibility information in an instance
of UIAccessibilityElement which is a new class
in UIKit that you can create and it's made
so that you can stick what you need
to into this object and return it.
So let's see a little bit how this works.
We have a object that you want to return information for
and we have a UIAccessibilityElement and what you want
to do is first, initWithAccessibilityContainer
and the Accessibility Container is the
UIView that contains it, obviously.
In this case we'll call it the stockGraphView.
Then we stick the right information into it like the
accessibilityLabel, in this case it will be January 1st
and so on and we can do that by saying
chartPart.accessibilityLabel = this
and then we need to set the accessibilityFrame
Remember this is the onscreen rectangle that defines
where this object is and it is important to set it
for this element because it's not a UIView.
UIKit doesn't know where this object actually is onscreen.
So you can do that by setting the accessibilityFrame
with the rectangle and then finally you want to add this
to a list of children that you can keep around in reference.
So at this point, I'm just going to show you some
of the Accessibility Container
protocol and we'll see how that works.
[ Pause ]
>> So what are we going to make happen
with the Accessibility Container protocol?
Well we have this graph and it's a UIView and it draws
some stuff and it also has these strange buttons here
which don't like buttons but I can click on them.
They don't look like buttons because
they're just NSStrings drawn at a point.
Now, I want to take those NSStrings and
return accessibility information for them.
Send them back through accessibility so that VoiceOver can
get to them and now they can press on them because right now
if VoiceOver went to this, all it would
be able to do is just touch on this graph.
Alright. So to do that we're going to go to graphing view.
We no longer need this accessibilityLabel
so I'll just remove it
because the graphing view no longer
returns information about accessibility.
It returns children that have accessibility information
and the first thing I'm going to do is paste in the outline
of what we want for the container protocol.
So we have an isAccessibilityElement that will
be no because that's not an accessibilityElement.
We have accessibilityElementCount
which is the number of children it has.
The ElementAtIndex which is the element at that index and
the index of this object and notice how I've done this,
I just referenced a function that we haven't yet defined
that will return an array and give me the right information
so I can call normal array methods to do most of the work.
I can call count on it object at index and index of object.
So now we have the outline of this.
We want to define this accessibility children
method which will make the right children for us.
So I'm going to copy this in and paste it in.
So what I have here will return the array only if the array
and it will only make the array
if it has not been made already.
You don't want to remake your accessibilityElements
over and over again.
That's expensive and wasteful and
VoiceOver will get confused.
So you can make an array, keep it
around and then just return that array.
So my accessibility children is
a ivar for the class.
We instance with it NSMutableArray and then we return it.
So the next question is, how do we make the
UIAccessibilityElements and have some code.
It's quite a lot that I'm going to
paste in but it's not complicated.
A lot of it is just duplicated over and over again.
So for my first element, I have a
graph element and that will sort
of represent the picture of the graph at this point.
So I make this element, I initWithAccessibilityContainer
self cause self is a container for it.
I set the accessibilityLabel to graph at this point.
We can do more later if we wanted to.
I set the accessibilityTraits to the trait image.
You know what, I don't have to OR it with super
here because super is just accessibilityElement.
It's not, there's nothing else
behind it that gives us information
and then I add that object to my list of children.
So I add this object first so that
VoiceOver will reach it first.
Eric demoed where you can flick with your
finger to get through the elements in order.
Well the order is determined by things like this.
So I put the graph first so that the
VoiceOver user gets to this object first.
Now, we want to make accessibilityElements for each button.
So I have similar type of code, I have button 1,
I initWithAccessibilityContainer self
and then I set that label for this.
And what is the label?
Well if you remember, it's something like F of
negative pi over 2 and F of 0 and F of pi over 2.
So I'll just set that as the accessibilityLabel,
F of negative pi over 2.
I'll give this a button trait because that's what we
want it to behave like and add it to my list of children.
I then do the same thing for button 2 and for button 3.
Alright, so we got those buttons
made, we stuck them in the array.
We're almost there except for one
more thing, we have to set the frame
so that VoiceOver knows where on
screen to find these things.
So once again I will paste a large amount of code
in and how I'm going to find this frame is I'm going
to use my accessibilityFrame to
base my calculations off of it.
So we have this graphing view and it's a UIView.
We know where it exists on screen and we can find out
where it exists on screen by saying self accessibilityFrame
and then use that information to set my
buttons' frames to the various things.
So I'll set my height and width to something static
that I found is appropriate then button 1
accessibilityFrame starts somewhere close to the left side
and starts somewhere down on the bottom as width and height.
Button 2 starts over in the middle.
Button 3 starts over at the end.
So I do all that and I just found this by trial and error.
I'm sure you can think of more creative ways to do this.
Finally, I have the graph accessibilityFrame which
starts at the top and then goes down to the buttons.
Alright, so we have all this accessibility information.
We'll run it and we'll see what happens.
So now when I click here, notice it's
only selecting part of the graph.
That's because we have an accessibilityElement
just for that graph.
Notice it also says graph and it's
an image just like we said.
I can now click her on these buttons.
Here is F of negative pi over 2, F of 0, and F of pi
over 2 and as a VoiceOver user I can now click on them
and then go here and get the information that a sighted
user also gets and I can do that for all the buttons.
>> So we've taken what was a very custom UIView, one that
drew a graph and took NSStrings and drew them at points
and we've changed them into the necessary
information so that VoiceOver users could get to them.
Now, you might think what about the graph?
Can we do a better job?
I'll leave that as an exercise to the reader.
So that's the Accessibility Container
protocol and that is the Accessibility API.
That's all there is to it.
You can make all your apps accessible using just this API
just like we've done with all the Apple internal apps.
As you've seen most of the work is already done
for you so you probably won't even have to do some
of the complicated stuff we did at the end.
Now, there's a few good ideas that you should
keep in mind when you're crafting your labels
and other information for VoiceOver users.
Be concise and short with your labels.
Don't be overly expressive and say this
button adds a city to the table view.
That might be very nice and loquacious but what the
user really wants is something short and concise
that will get them to do what they want to do.
So say "add city" instead.
Don't include the type of information in the label.
So you don't need to say "remove city button" because the
button is part of the traits, instead just say remove city.
Otherwise, the VoiceOver user will hear remove
city button button and that's not good for anybody.
If you have a hint, there's a few things to remember.
First, you don't always need a hint.
When you do need a hint, it's because
when you perform an action
on this object the result is not
obvious based on its context.
So a good example I like to think of is in
iTunes Store, there's table rows and if you touch
on a table row it plays a preview of the song.
So a good hint for that would be "plays a preview."
A bad hint will be "pressing here will
play a preview of the current song."
One because it's not very concise, obviously it will play
a preview of the current song that's why you're on it
and you also, it's bad because it's defined
as "pressing here" and you don't want
to tell the VoiceOver user how
they will interact with this object
because maybe they don't press here maybe they
swipe or maybe they do some other gesture.
So instead just give a short overview of what
will happen when this object is activated.
So to wrap up, accessibility expands
this iPhone community that has grown
so large to include as many people as possible.
Your apps, just like being an important
part of the iPhone story,
are going to be an important part
of the accessibility story.
Already people are talking, will other apps be
accessible and it's up to you now to make sure they are.
We've shown you that it's not easy,
burdensome or hard to do this.
So hopefully by at this point through the
talk all your apps actually are accessible
and you're uploading them to the App Store right now.
I'll be a little bit disappointed if they're not.
Once you've done that, make sure to test with Inspector and
once you get your new 3GS phone, test it with VoiceOver.
I think it'll be pretty fun to see what your
app sounds like to someone who can't see
and if you're really brave you can close your eyes and see
if you can use your app without seeing what's going on.
Here's the requisite information about more information.
You'll find there's a VoiceOver Manual, there
is UIAccessibility programming documents.
Hopefully, this example app will be available and all of
this will be on the website shortly, if not there now.